 Namo Buddhaya. Welcome to yet another episode in Inner Guide program. Today I'm going to share with you three great advices that our great teacher Supreme Buddha gave us in order to have a peaceful life forever and also if we follow these three instructions Supreme Buddha told that you will have your rebirth in heaven. So what are these three instructions? Number one, Supreme Buddha said always speak the truth. If someone speaks the truth in his life Supreme Buddha said he can live a peaceful life. Now telling lies is a easy thing to do. It's very easy. When you are in a problem, when you are in a difficult situation you can tell a lie and just escape from that problem. But remember you are not escaping from that bad karma, bad action. You cannot escape from those results of those bad actions. So telling lies is a thing that we should not do in our life. Whatever difficult situation comes up in our lives, whatever disadvantage that you get from telling the truth you have to say that because bitter truth is better than sweet lies. So our great teacher Supreme Buddha advised us to always speak the truth. That is the first advice. If we follow that advice we will have our rebirth in heaven and we can live our life happily. Number two, Supreme Buddha said do not get angry. It is easy to get angry with someone. Our great teacher Supreme Buddha said It is very easy to do evil things which brings the unhappiness and suffering to us as well as to the others. So our great teacher Supreme Buddha said you should always do what is good. Remember doing good things is very hard. Being patient and not getting anger into your mind is very hard. We have to admit that. Though it is very hard, remember if we did not do it, one day we will have to suffer because of our evil deeds. So maintain your inner peace by being not angry with anyone. Now in this situation you may not be angry with anyone but when a problem comes up in your life it is very hard to maintain your patience. It is very hard to maintain your kindness. It is very hard to maintain your compassion. So our great teacher Supreme Buddha advised us to practice love and kindness and do not be angry with anyone. If you maintain a peaceful mind without the anger then you can be happy with your life and also Supreme Buddha advised us and Supreme Buddha told us that the person who is not getting angry with anyone, the person who spreads his loving kindness to everyone will reborn in heaven. So if you need a good rebirth what you have to do, do not be angry. Number three, the final advice Supreme Buddha said you have to give even if you have little. Now you know if you have thousand dollars and if you were to spend one dollar it is very easy but what will happen if you have one dollar with you and you were to spend that dollar for someone, you were to donate that dollar for someone, can you do that? It is very hard but if someone become generous even if he has little with him, Supreme Buddha said that is the most worthiest gift, that is the maximum of being generous, that is the maximum point of generosity. That means to give even when we have little with us because if we were to give when we have a little we are struggling with our ego in our mind, we are struggling with our craving in our mind because people do like very much for money and the things they they around us, they don't like to give them they feel very hard to be generous but if a person can live, if you can live with generosity, if you can give and donate and give alms to people even when you have little, then you are being generous and you practice the generosity which brings the happiness to your life forever and also Supreme Buddha said he can, the generous person can have his rebirth in heaven. So our great teacher Supreme Buddha advised us you should practice these three tips or three instructions that was given by our great teacher Supreme Buddha, if you practice these three advices you will have a wonderful and peaceful life in this life as well as in the other. So practice this and may you have a wonderful and peaceful life in this world. Namo Buddhaya, Thiruvansara Life