 दीने दियों आ रही है उससे रिटाईर यों गे本ता गेना का वैन तुछ गपंली बीचते जा गेंा दा और वो ख़़ूर्ण आशार हो। लेगा अगप्र he उसमन न जते हों की है आपने ख़ूर्णसी चों even चों की लिए What I discover was that their is a framwork that can help make sense of it all And that's what I want to share with you today You see there are four distinct phases that most of us move through in retirement And as you will see, it's not always a smooth ride In the next few minutes, you'll recognize which phase you're in if you're retired And if you're not, you'll have a better idea of what to expect when that time comes And best of all, you'll know that there is a phase four The most gratifying, satisfying of the four phases And that's where you can squeeze all the juice out of retirement Phase one is the vacation phase, and that's just what it's like You wake up when you want, you do what you want all day And the best part is that there is no set routine For most people, phase one represents their view of an ideal retirement Relaxing, fun in the sun, freedom baby! And for most folks, phase one lasts for about a year or so And then, strangely, it begins to lose its luster We begin to feel a bit bored We actually miss our routine Something in us seems to need one And we ask ourselves, is that all there is to retirement? Now when these thoughts and feelings start to bubble up You have already moved into phase two Phase two is when we feel loss and we feel lost Phase two is when we lose the big five Significant losses, all associated with retirement We lose that routine, we lose a sense of identity We lose many of the relationships that we had established at work We lose a sense of purpose And for some people, there is a loss of power Now, we don't see these things coming We didn't see these losses coming And because they happen all at once, it's like poof! Gone! It's traumatic Phase two is also when we come face to face with the three D's Divorce, depression and decline Both physical and mental The result of all of this is that we can feel like we've been hit by a bus You see, before we can appreciate and enjoy some of the positive aspects Associated with phase three and four You are going to, in phase two, feel fear, anxiety and quite even depression That's just the way it is So buckle up! Get ready! Fortunately, at some point, most of us say to ourselves Hey, I can't go on like this I don't want to spend the rest of my life Perhaps 30 years, feeling like this And when we do, we've turned a corner to phase three Phase three is a time of trial and error In phase three, we ask ourselves How can I make my life meaningful again? How can I contribute? The answer, often, is to do things that you love to do And do really well But phase three can also deliver some disappointment and failure For example I spent a couple of years serving on a condo board Until I finally got tired of being yelled at You see, one year, the board decided that we were going to plant daffodils Rather than the traditional daisies And we got yelled at Go figure I thought about law school Thinking, perhaps, of becoming a paralegal And then I completed a program on dispute resolution It all went nowhere I love to write So I created a program called Getting Started on Your Memoirs That program has met with limited success It's been a rocky road for me too And I told you to buckle up Now I know all this can sound bad But it's really important to keep trying and experimenting With different activities that will make you want to get up in the morning again Because if you don't There's a real good chance of slipping back into phase two Feeling like you've been hit by a bus And that is not a happy prospect Not everyone breaks through to phase four But those who do are some of the happiest people I have ever met Phase four is a time to reinvent and rewire But phase four involves answering some tough questions too Like, what's the purpose here? What's my mission? How can I squeeze all the juice out of retirement? You see, it's important that we find activities that are meaningful to us And that give us a sense of accomplishment And my experience is that it almost always involves service to others Maybe it's helping a charity that you care about Maybe you'll be like the old coots These folks took a booth in the local farmer's market And were prepared to give their advice Based on their vast years of experience To anyone who came by So, one of their first visitors was a kid who wanted help with his math homework On his tablet. They did the best they could. Or maybe you'll be like my friend Bill. I met Bill a few years ago in a 55 plus activity group. In the summer we golf together and walk together and bicycle together. In the winter we curl. But Bill had this idea that we should exercise our brains as well. He believed that there was a tremendous pool of expertise and experience in our group. And so he approached a number of folks and asked if they would volunteer to teach some of the things that they love to do to others. And almost invariably they agreed. Bill himself taught two sessions. One on iPads and one on iPhones. Because we were smart enough to know that a number of our members had been given these things as gifts at Christmas by their children. And that they barely knew how to turn them on. The first year we offered nine programs and there were 200 folks signed up. The next year that number expanded to 45 programs with over 700 folks participating. And the following year we offered over 90 programs and had 2100 registrations. Amazing. That was Bill. Our members taught us to play bridge and Mahjong. They taught us to paint. They taught us to repair our bicycles. We tutored and mentored local school kids. We set up English as a second language programs for newcomers. We had book clubs. We had film clubs. We even had a few golf clubs. It's exhausting but exhilarating. That's what's possible in Phase 4. And do you remember the five losses that we talked about in Phase 2? Loss of our routine and identity and relationships and purpose and power. In Phase 4 these are all recovered. It is magic to see. Magic. So, I urge you to enjoy your vacation in Phase 1. Be prepared for the losses in Phase 2. Experiment and try as many different things as you can in Phase 3. And squeeze all the juice out of retirement in Phase 4. Copyright© OSHO International Foundation www.OSHO.com Copyright OSHO is a registered Trademark of OSHO International Foundation