How should we view money, financial security, from a spiritual perspective? Mm. From the spiritual perspective, the money is not, um, the goal. The goal of the practice. The goal of the practice is, for spiritual sense, you know, to, to calm your mind. Calm, peaceful, open your mind, clear, and become kind, care to others, to become good person. Good heart. That's a goal. Maybe, mundane life, you know. There, money is good. Make money, more money. Time is a money, or everything's money. Money, money, money, money. Uh. But actually, money and wealth, the, the material wealth, is not bring you happiness. One time, I, I'm watching one kind of, like, documentary film, you know. It's not really like a documentary, it's kind of, like, interview. And the media interviewing one of the, one of the rich men in the world, or something like that. There is one guy, you know. And they asked him, "Do you believe the money make you happiness?" He said, "No. Money and wealth doesn't make me happiness, but it," how to say, "money and wealth is, make my life easy, convenient. But easy and convenient, not necessary to, not necessary become happy." Something like that, you know. And, but it doesn't mean, "Oh, I'm spiritual practitioner. So, money is poison, money is not good, oh," you know. That also, you know, not recommended. I don't think that's also, not, um, not necessary to do that. That's why, main important is, balance. The balance is important. What is balance? Thinking money is everything, always money, then you lose, lose many things. You lose value of life, you, you cannot see human value, meaning of life, no kind, no compassion. Just money. And from that, lot of negative side effects. But if you say, "Oh, money is poison, not good, not good, no money at all," against money, lot of haters, you know. Lot of, not, not, not nice to have haters, aversion, you know, anger with anything. That's why, even you have anger with the money, but you have to survive, yeah? You have to eat, you have to wear. Unless if you achieve very, very high level of realization, then it's okay. Okay. I will teach you special mantra, okay? That's really benefit for you. The mantra is, Om Mani Padme Hum. And it can change into, Om Money Coming Home. Nice? That's a joke, you know. Some people say, "I'm practice meditation. I'm practice, you know, spiritual, uh, whatever, you know, religions, whatever." But, but, thinking is, "Maybe that benefit for me to, you know, develop my stock market, or maybe I can buy this lottery, who knows, you know. Buddha, help me to win the, my lottery, you know. Om money coming home." Okay, anyway. Hm.