Namo Buddhaya. Welcome to yet another episode in Inner Guide program. Today, I'm going to share with you a wonderful teaching that is given by our Great Teacher, Supreme Buddha, on how to protect our wealth. Now as human beings, we need money to live a comfortable life nowadays, right? You need money to buy foods, you need money to buy clothings, you need to buy—you need money to buy fuel to the vehicles, and everything. These days, everything is based on money. But many of us doesn't know how to protect the money that we earned and how to save the property, to protect the property that we earned in our life. Our Great Teacher, Supreme Buddha, advised us, you should avoid six things in your life in order to save and protect the properties and the wealth that you earned in your life. If you avoid these six things, you will be able to protect everything that you earned. But if you keep on doing these things within your life, Supreme Buddha said, it is a drain to your wealth. It is a drain on your wealth. Right? If you keep on doing these six things, the—the money and the wealth that you earned will be drained off. Right? It will be—they will be wasted. So, what are these things? Number one, Supreme Buddha said, taking intoxicating drinks and drugs is a drain on your wealth. What are the—the intoxicating drinks and drugs? They are the alcoholic drinks and the drugs. Now, the—the—the thing that behind this alcohol and the drugs is, sometimes you may start with a little bit of alcohol, right? You don't mind about that. But the more we get it, we will be used to that drug. Right? After that, you want more. You want something that gives more intense and more pleasure through that. So, what will happen? We will get addicted to that drug. We will get addicted to the alcohol. If you are being addicted to that, you will spend money on that every day, right? You cannot get off from that. You—you cannot get out from that. So, the more we take these alcoholic and drugs, alcoholics and drugs, we will get addicted to them, and we will spend money on that. Right? Some people spend thousands and millions of their money, their wealth, to take the alcohols, to drink alcohol, to take drugs. Supreme Buddha said if you keep on taking intoxicating drinks and drugs, it's a drain on your wealth. Right? How—it doesn't matter how rich you are, how wealthy you are, it will start to drain off. And one day, you will end up as a poor person. You will be poor from wealth, as well as you will be poor from your health. So, that is why—that is the danger behind the alcoholic drugs. Right? Don't use them. Keep away from them. You know it is not good for your health and your—and your wealth. So, why don't you keep away from them? Stay away from them. It is a good thing. That is the first thing that—the first fact that drains our wealth. Number two, Supreme Buddha said, frequenting festivals is a drain on your wealth. What is frequenting festivals? If you keep on partying all the time, if you are a party guy, right? There are people who keep on doing parties and going to parties, and festivals, and ceremonies, and their whole life is a party. Right? If you are frequenting parties, right, you will have to spend money on those parties. You will have to spend money on the clothes, and the drinks, and the—all the requirements that you want to go there. And finally, you will spend all the money that you earned, the wealth that you earned in your life to make some pleasure to your life in those parties. The more we go to parties, the more our wealth will be drained off. Therefore, Supreme Buddha said it is okay to go to parties, it doesn't matter. It is okay to go to the festivals and music festivals, it doesn't matter. But if you are frequenting that, if you are doing it frequently, that is the wrong thing. That is the wrong point. So, what you have to do, you have to control this. Right? So, don't go to parties all the time. Just work on yourself, work on your success, right? Then you can manage and you can save the money that you earned without wasting them. It is a total waste. Number three, Supreme Buddha said, loitering in the streets at night is a drain on your wealth. If you are wandering at night without any reason, without any purpose, at night, in the streets, Supreme Buddha said it is a drain on your wealth. Why? You're go—you're going out of your house at night. Supreme Buddha said when you go out and loiter and wander here and there out in the streets, your property, your house, your wealth, and your children, your spouse is left unguarded. Right? There's no one to guard them. So, anything will—anything can happen to your wealth. So, if you're wandering and loitering without any purpose, now it doesn't say that you don't—you don't want to go out at night. You can go out at night, it doesn't matter, but if you are wandering here and there without any reason, right, to pleasurize yourself, that is a wrong thing to do. That is a drain on your wealth. So, that is why Supreme Buddha said—Buddha said you should not wander and loiter here and there without any reason at night in the streets. Right? That is the third drain on your wealth. And also, Supreme Buddha said, gambling is a drain on your wealth. You know the thing behind the gambling, right? You spend money, you spend lots of money to, uh, gamble, to do those, uh, sports, or whatever they—they call. And if you lose, suddenly, you lose a lot of money that you earned. Right? If you win, it's okay, you earn money. But every day, through gambling, you cannot win. Most of the time, people lose through gambling, and they lose their money. So, if you keep on gambling, it's a drain on your wealth. Right? The people who go to the casinos and the things, they will drain their wealth off. That is the fourth point. And also, Supreme Buddha said, being with bad friends, evil friends, is a drain on your wealth, right? If you have bad friends, evil friends, they will always use you to spend money. There are some—some, uh, friends, they are called the takers. They always try to take something from you. Right? If you have money, they are—they're all around you. If you don't have money, they're gone. So, you have to decide your friends, how—how my friends are, who my friends are. Right? And also, always choose friends that always helps you in your life, right? The friends who always give the good advice to your life. Right? Do not be with evil friends. If you—if you are being with evil friends, if you are being with alcoholic friends, your money will be drained off. So, being with evil friends is a drain on your wealth. And the final fact that drains your wealth is the laziness. If you are being lazy, you are not earning anything in your life, any money in your life, any wealth in your life. If you get up at 10:00 AM in the morning, that's laziness, you—you cannot be successful. Right? If you need to be successful, you need to be away from the laziness, you have to get up early in the morning and start working on your success, right? That needs the courage, that needs the grit, it is difficult. But if you keep on doing it, if you keep on making your life a success one, one day, you can be a wealthy person. So, these are the six things that—that drains your wealth. If you stay away from these six things, you can save the property and the wealth that you earned. Okay? So, stay away from these six things and earn money. It is not a problem that you earn money. It is not a bad thing, but you know—you should know how to save that money that you earned. Okay? So, be away from these six things and make your life a better one. Namo Buddhaya.