 Let me ask you a question. If you think right now about dying, how many of you would want to pass away peacefully in your sleep? No warning. No symptoms. No fear. Just go. Most of you would say yes to that question. But here's another question. If you were to pass away today, would you be ready? No regrets. Nothing left unsaid. Totally at peace. Well, I'm going to be honest with you. Most people don't die like that. Their idea of dying isn't how they'll die. For most of us, dying won't be easy. And for most of us, we won't be ready. It's a tough sell asking people to think about death. We make it up in our minds that it's very far off. We say, I have time. And with that, we tend to push off dealing with important issues in life, particularly relationship issues. We don't like thinking about death, so we don't. And we never see it as the ultimate deadline, which is, of course, exactly what it is. For most of us, for most of our lives, we don't know when and we don't know how we will die, but we do know that we will one day certainly die. And when the prospect of death looms into focus and makes itself known, it pretty much changes our perspective on everything. As a hospice and palliative medicine physician practicing for over a decade, I have had the privilege of helping hundreds upon hundreds of patients transition out of their lives over days, weeks, and months. I have seen firsthand how death can be a terrifying and agonizing struggle, but I have also seen how when well-managed, it can present a great opportunity. Now, most of you are familiar with the term life coach. Well, you could say I'm a death coach. And just as a life coach focuses on living well, I focus on dying well. And I've come to see, perhaps surprisingly, that the two are much more closely linked than most of us ever realize. I'd like to share with you just a glimpse into the ends of lives of some of my patients, which over the last decade have changed the way I see death, so that now I truly believe there is no need for it to be this taboo subject which none of us wants to touch. It is simply one of two key milestones in every person's earthly journey, being born into this world and transitioning out of it, both beautiful, both unavoidable, and both a privilege to be part of. We just need to understand that terminal illness very often is a dominant part of the dying process. Statistically speaking, every single one of us, whether directly or in someone we love, will be impacted by terminal illness. Each of my stories of patients today with terminal illness is meant to give you an idea of the facets of good management at the end of life which transform the dying experience. We can begin with Michael. Michael was an active guy, but when he came on service with us, he couldn't do anything. He was in terrible cancer pain and wanted relief. We meticulously built his symptom management regimen from the ground up, each carefully selected and modified element supporting every other. A house of cards, I like to call it. We got Michael feeling so good, he asked to see his oncologist. He wanted to see if there was any chance for further treatment since he was feeling on top of the world. His oncologist was in disbelief that Michael looked so good. He told him he'd come on to hospice too soon. He told him to cut back on his regimen, which Michael did. The pain came back with a vengeance. Michael quickly fell apart. We had to rebuild the pain management regimen, and luckily we got Michael back to where he was before. Good pain management, good symptom management gave Michael the quality of life to enjoy his final days with his wife. What I realized from Michael's case was that when you're in pain, you can't think of anything else. The harsh reality is that terminal illness means deterioration of the body, and this shows up in a number of symptoms like pain. Hospice allows for the continual micromanaging of these symptoms, which significantly changes the patient's experience. For most of us, when we think of hospice, we think it's a place we go to at the end of life when there's no hope for cure. But the truth is that it's so much more. Linda was a patient with ALS, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. It's a debilitating neurological disease which ends in paralysis and respiratory failure. ALS is a fear-inspiring disease. Linda worried about how she would die, particularly not being able to breathe. She wanted to find a hospice which would take her on her ventilator and manage her well. She found us. When Linda passed so peacefully on Christmas Day, I knew we had managed an extraordinary case. Through early hospice, Linda, her caregiver, and all of us who took care of her had forged an incredible bond. We had been transformed by the privilege of taking care of her. The key to Linda's case was that she knew where she was. She understood how terminal she was, and this helped her to make the right decision, the decision for early, timely hospice care. With John, another patient, the story was very different. John was sick for a few years. John knew his family personally, and one afternoon got a call from his daughter. She was in a tough place. Her dad had been in terrible pain for weeks. She said to me, I don't know what's going on. I've brought him to so many doctors, and no one is telling me what's going on with him. I listened to her, and after hearing everything, I told her my assessment. John was dying and was in a pain crisis. He had days to weeks. As soon as I spoke these words, she was stunned. She believed me, but couldn't comprehend how no one had said this to her, to them, up until now. I recommended his coming on immediately with hospice. We put an aggressive pain management regimen in place, and John stabilized. He was able to spend a few weeks of beautiful quality time with his family. His daughter told me afterwards how appreciative they were of the care their dad had received and what a difference the right guidance at the right time had made in allowing them closure. See, good management isn't just symptom management and timely hospice. Good management is also letting people who have no knowledge of dying know exactly where they are so they can benefit. It's not easy telling people how much time they have left, but it makes a world of difference in allowing them to prioritize what they need for closure. And there's one other thought on good management I'd like to share. Grace was a patient with metastatic cancer. She came home from the hospital and had weeks left to live. Her dying wish was to see her daughter's wedding. We spoke to Grace and her daughter about how to make that happen. We ended up running a hospital in the home, and Grace partook from her hospital bed in her daughter's wedding. She was beautiful. I can say that without the creative management and teamwork of what we did, we wouldn't have been able to... to offer Grace and her family the opportunity of experiencing something they longed to experience. The fact that Grace was able to experience such a miraculous milestone was through opportunity. But at the end of life, it's not just the big moments which count. Every moment is precious when you're nearing the end, and just getting someone to breathe better, feel better, think better, can be bliss for them. Most of us are in the mindset of how not to die, which makes us want to avoid anything to do with death. With this conversation today, I hope I've shifted us into the mindset of how do we die better? How not to die is not based in reality. We will die. How to die better encompasses the full picture. It celebrates birth, life, and death, the complete cycle. I'd like to change the way we view terminal illness and dying. Terminal illness is not easy, but hospice and its good management can significantly reduce suffering. Even more than that, it can provide an opportunity for some of the most beautiful moments of our existences. I can say that there are good ways to manage death and not-so-good ways. I can say that when someone hears or suspects the word terminal, they should think hospice. Not hospice there's no hope, but hospice will take care of me. Hospice and its superb end-of-life management will give me a chance to feel better, have quality, create opportunity, and be at peace with my loved ones and myself. Thank you.