How many of us in the room are spiritual? I was discussing with my wife, and I asked her as to in her opinion what is the percentage of people in the world who are spiritual? She told me, "Jyada nahi honge," about 1% maybe. I think in the room we have a much larger percentage. I looked at internet and tried to ascertain as to what is the percentage of our population which is spiritual? Quora gave me a figure of 90% plus, much more than what I think today we have in the room. And then, all of us husbands are wired to believe our wives. Secret of happy marriage. So, I was I was a little curious as to why Quora says something which is different than what my wife says. And then I looked at it, Quora says that 90% people in the world are spiritual because they belong to one or the other organized religion. So, the definition about spirituality links it to religion. Then I really looked at the definition of spirituality, and spirituality is defined as deep emotions and beliefs. Mostly of religious kind. Spirituality and religion, I think, need not be connected. How I would like to define spirituality? Spirituality is when you are blissful, peaceful, and loving, without any external trigger. If I'm blissful because I'm at a dream location with my spouse enjoying my time and therefore I'm blissful, am I spiritual? No. I'm peaceful because there is peace around me and I'm sitting in a garden and enjoying. Is that spirituality? No. I'm loving because someone gave me a flower and said, "I love you" on a Valentine Day. Is that spirituality? No. When without any external trigger, if you are blissful, peaceful, and loving, because that is what you are, that is spirituality. In fact, an outside trigger might at times slip you a little, which means that if you lose a loved one, you might be less blissful for a while, and you might bounce back at the earliest, and at the ultimate level of spirituality perhaps it may not affect you. What is materialism? Materialistic is defined as excessive focus on money and possessions. At times making it the most important. Now, this is defined in a negative manner. Materialistic: negative. Spiritual: positive. A material person is an individual who enjoys and embraces his physical possessions without guilt. I would want today's material person to be completely in flow with the universe. To be ready to receive. To be connected where things are possible, where the flow comes. The moment we are open to receive, the moment we are connected with the universe, I have seen money and possession coming towards you, and a material person of today can enjoy it without guilt, can give out of compassion. If this is what material and spiritual person is, what are the common beliefs about that? A spiritual person says that material is immaterial. He says that a person who is focused only on physical possessions misses out on soul and spirit of life. He says that we are all, not human beings having spiritual experiences, but spiritual beings having human experience. On the other hand, materialistic people look at spiritual people in a very different manner. They say, what I can't see or touch is all humbo-jumbo, is all imagination of a fertile mind. Some people say that people who don't succeed in this world take refuge in ambiguity and spirituality. So, is spirituality and materialism opposite of each other? Are they mutually exclusive? My idea is that we can embrace both. Materialism and spirituality in today's world can marry and create more humans who are whole, perfect, and complete. Actually, in my mind, both complement each other. Spirituality without money is socially impotent, and materialism without spirituality is poorer. Let's look at material people who don't find spirituality. We have examples of Deepika Padukone or comedian Kapil Sharma, who at the height of their popularity, all material success, all that the money can buy, can feel depressed. We have seen celebrities in Hollywood and Bollywood not only feeling depressed but committing suicide at the peak of their popularity. When they could have whatever they have, whatever they want, how could you feel empty and meaningless within, which can push you to jumping from the roof? Material people, rich people need to be spiritual. Rich people also have, in Maslow's hierarchy of needs, taken care of their requirements. Which means that when he meditates, the wife would not say, "Arre bhai, EMI ka kya hua? Woh toh dekho." Or when he is peaceful, he wouldn't have to worry about Section 138 notice for bouncing of the check. His finances are sorted, he's comfortable, and he can now look at the purpose of life, what he wants to give to the world, what he really is. So, spirituality for a material person is a must. He is in fact incomplete without that. Richness can give you sadness. At times makes you insecure. The number one position is the most difficult because you always feel like losing it. I have seen series on kings who are the most powerful and rich and feeling insecure at the same time. So, rich person to actually be grounded, to actually enjoy his riches, a material person needs spirituality. On the other hand, spiritual person, why does he need to care? He is internally happy, doesn't need any outside trigger. Have you heard about Corporate Social Responsibility? The companies who make profit have to do something for the society, which is Corporate Social Responsibility. By law, they would need to take on activity and spend money on something which is socially responsible. A spiritual person has what I call SSR, Spiritual Social Responsibility. He is, he is fine, and he's connected, and he's happy. Now, there is a definite amount of money in the world, and a spiritual person has social responsibility to be rich. That definite amount of money, if spiritual and good people would not have it, would be usurped by people who are in antisocial activity. And the spiritual and nice person would say, "I don't need money. Money is evil. I need to renounce everything because I'm spiritual." Spiritual person has a responsibility to be rich so that money is in better hands, money is in spiritual hands. Money would be used for good purposes. Second, we need to create critical mass of spiritual people so that spirituality would be easily available to all. Right now, we have 1% spiritual people, or 5%, or 10%. I think if we need to go to a world where there are more spiritual people, what do we do? We need to have young people into spirituality. I have seen young people having spark, having interest in spirituality, getting turned off because he says it's too serious. Most of the spiritual people, they don't have anything. Spirituality gives you life. Materialism gives you lifestyle. Today's youth want both. Give them life, give them lifestyle. They would want a good car, a good house, and be deeply spiritual. A spiritual person who is poor, a spiritual person who doesn't have any success to show outside, is a turn-off. Young people who have spark need to be drawn into spirituality by spiritual people who are successful, who are enjoying lives, who are having material possession, and are fully embracing it without any guilt. We need to marry spirituality and materialism. Spiritual people have that social responsibility to be rich, and they would therefore need to be material. Let me share my life journey and my experiences in pursuit of materialism and spirituality. The year was 1975. I had just completed my schooling. My father suffered a heart stroke. Five of us, three brothers, two sisters, and my mother. In one week's short illness, my father passed away. He was the only breadwinner. He died at 56. Most of us were studying, and there was nobody to provide for bread in the house. I did not want that, and I did not want that for my lifetime. That resolve to be financially independent took me to Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad. I made it a goal, worked towards it, and got into IIM Ahmedabad in my first attempt. That made my resolve that I would move from this financial hardship to financial independence. How can you be rich? Rich person is the one who doesn't stop making money when he sleeps. Which means that you need to have an extra income, which is your money generating money for you. And that was the first thing that I learned from IIM Ahmedabad and made a firm resolve, and from the very first salary check that I got, I did not spend all the money, I saved some money, I invested that money, which means that I gave it to somebody else on interest. I started making my money work harder. I started seeing to it that my money created an extra cash flow for me, which would make me financially stronger. And that habit continues now. 10 years, good jobs, saving and investing, taking risks, understanding money, be open to receive, moved me from financial hardships to financial independence. In 1995, I started management consultancy firm, my enterprise. That marked a beginning from financial independence to financial abundance. I started working on projects which were rewarding, which were my self-expression, which allowed me to contribute to the society. I held positions in Gujarat Chamber and Confederation of Indian Industry. I worked with the government, and I, I did the work that I enjoyed, earned good money, and contributed to the society. Material aspects were improving. From financial hardship, to financial independence, to financial abundance. In 2005, I went for a spiritual retreat in Maharashtra. 12 days of retreat, 10 days of Arya Maun, noble silence. The room was 10 by 10. I was living on donation of people who had earlier studied there. There was almost no food after lunch at 12:30. You don't speak to anybody, you don't see television, you have no phone, you have nothing to write, you have no pen, no paper, and nothing to read. It was solitary confinement of its extreme form. Those 10 days taught me to live with myself and to be comfortable within. Most of the times, we are scared of ourselves, and these 10 days gave me an opportunity to look within. Most of the times in the world, we look outside and process that information, that if something went right, I feel happy and fulfilled, if something went wrong, I'm sad. That is how we see the world all the time. This 10 days taught me to look inwards, within me, to meditate, to find out meaning of life, to find out your own connection, and to be comfortable under your own skin. After 10 days, I came back. My management consultancy firm was earning good money, but life balance happened better. Which meant that I was earning well with less efforts. Less attachment. I was working with my own rules, that I would not work after this. I would, every day would be lived as if I'm living it as a last day, that every day I would like to close at 6:00 and then again start next day morning, but would not allow work to overflow in my time where I would consider other things more important. Let me share with you one real-life situation as to how actual balance between work and life poses challenges. About 10 years before, I got a dream assignment from the largest industrial group of India for their project in Jaipur. The project was public-private partnership, something that I enjoy doing and something I know like back of my hand. Money was good. One day at 7:30 in the evening, I received a phone call from the project manager, saying, "Have you looked at your email?" And I said, "I normally don't do it after 6:00." She says, "Please look at the email. There is a meeting in Jaipur tomorrow with the commissioner." So, can you prepare and reach, taking morning flight? I was a little reluctant. I did that anyways. After the meeting, I told her that, "Can these be arranged in a better manner? Last-minute requirement like this disturbs my balance. I am not giving in best because it's something where my priorities are different, and my next day's schedule goes haywire." She says, "We will factor it in, and we'll do it better." After 2 weeks, again I got a phone call, this time from the director of the project, saying that, "We have tomorrow meeting in Jaipur with the minister, and the chief minister may join in. Please keep the presentation ready and join." I prepared at night, took the next day flight, and after the meeting I again sat down with the director. I told him that, "Look, I, I value this project, I enjoy it immensely, there is good money, but it doesn't work for me." He couldn't believe it. He says, "You don't understand." He says, "We are the biggest group. This is a project which you know, you are contributing well, it's a win-win." He says, "Tomorrow we are going to have 50 such projects. You'll employ 70 people for 10 years, and your life is done." And I told him, "Yes, but no." That it doesn't work for me. He still could not believe it, but he let me go, and I said that, "Let me be there in an advisory capacity where I can advise, where I would give limited time, but I would not be required to disturb my life to reach there." My entrepreneurship became a lifestyle entrepreneurship. Where work fits into the life goals, and life is not subjected to the work requirements. When you decide it in your mind, the whole atmosphere around you takes care, so that you move on that path. As I come to the end of my speech, let me tell you that material is not immaterial. Ritual is not spiritual. And I also include in that ritual, meditation, because it's a, it's a myth most of the people feel that if you meditate, you are naturally spiritual, or if you don't meditate, how can you be spiritual? I have the best moments of my life meditating in my garden for hours and feeling connected. However, yours could be different. It is my ladder to the guy in the sky, but not yours. For you, it could be music. For somebody else, it could be dance. And something else for the others. Choose your own ladder. We all don't need to actually meditate to be spiritual. They are two different things, and most of the times, yes, meditation helps, but that if you don't do it, you don't disqualify. Spirituality and materialism in today's world need to marry. All of the people who are watching me, who are listening to me, I would request you to join in the journey where we marry spiritualism and materialism. Where we make the world a better place to live, where our external journey also helps us in our internal journey. Let's together walk on that path. Let us have more material spiritual beings, enjoying life. Let today's Buddha, you and me, sing and dance on our way to spirituality. Thank you.